LICENSE AND SUBSCRIPTION AGREEMENT

PLEASE READ THIS AGREEMENT CAREFULLY BEFORE YOU AGREE TO THESE TERMS. IF YOU ARE ACTING ON BEHALF OF AN ENTITY, THEN YOU REPRESENT THAT YOU HAVE THE AUTHORITY TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT ON BEHALF OF THAT ENTITY. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE TO THESE TERMS, YOU SHOULD NOT AGREE TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT OR INSTALL OR USE THE SOFTWARE.

This License and Subscription Agreement (“Agreement”) is made by and between StrongLoop, Inc. (“StrongLoop”) with its principal place of business at 2440 Sand Hill Road, Suite 300, Menlo Park, CA 94025 and the person or entity entering into this Agreement (“Customer“). The effective date (“Effective Date”) of this Agreement is the date Customer agrees to these terms or installs or uses the Software (as defined below). Capitalized terms have the meaning set forth in the applicable Sections or in Section 9. This Agreement applies to Customer’s use of the Software but it shall be superseded by any signed agreement between you and StrongLoop concerning the Software.

1. License. 

1.1 Types of Licenses. There are two (2) types of licenses covered in this Agreement: (i) free Development Use and Evaluation Licenses; and (ii) paid Software Subscriptions consisting of Developer Subscription, Silver Subscription and Gold Subscription, which also include Support Services (as defined below) for the Software. The terms for Software Subscriptions shall only apply once Customer has purchased the applicable Software Subscription from StrongLoop. 

1.2 Development Use and Evaluation License Grant. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, StrongLoop grants to Customer, during the Term of this Agreement, a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable right and license, to use the Software solely for evaluation and development purposes and in no event may Customer use the Software for production or any other commercial purposes. 

1.3 Software Subscription License Grants.

1.3.1 Developer Subscription. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, during the time Customer has purchased a Developer Subscription, StrongLoop grants to Customer a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable license to install and use the Software on a per named developer basis solely for development purposes and in no event may Customer use the Software for production or any other commercial purposes. If the number of developers using the Software increases, Customer shall notify StrongLoop and pay the Fees applicable to such additional developers beginning from the first date of such use.

1.3.2 Gold and Platinum Subscription. Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, during the time Customer has purchased a Silver or Gold Subscription, StrongLoop grants to Customer a limited, non-exclusive, non-transferable license to install and use the Software on Servers solely in connection with Customer's business operations. All of Customer’s Servers on which the Software is installed or used must be covered by a Software Subscription; if Customer increases the quantity of Servers on which the Software is installed or used, Customer shall notify StrongLoop, and pay the Fees applicable to such additional Servers beginning from the first date of such use.

1.3.3 Termination or Expiration of Software Subscription. Upon termination or expiration of the Software Subscription, Customer’s license to the Software granted under this Agreement shall terminate. 

1.4 License Restrictions. For both Development Use and Evaluation Licenses and Software Subscriptions, Customer shall not itself, or through any parent, subsidiary, affiliate, agent or other third party:

1.4.1 sell, lease, license, distribute, sublicense or otherwise transfer in whole or in part, any Software or the Documentation to a third party; or

1.4.2 decompile, disassemble, translate, reverse engineer or otherwise attempt to derive source code from the Software, in whole or in part, nor shall Customer use any mechanical, electronic or other method to trace, decompile, disassemble, or identify the source code of the Software or encourage others to do so, except to the limited extent, if any, that applicable law permits such acts notwithstanding any contractual prohibitions, provided, however, before Customer exercises any rights that Customer believes to be entitled to based on mandatory law, Customer shall provide StrongLoop with thirty (30) days prior written notice and provide all reasonably requested information to allow StrongLoop to assess Customer’s claim and, at StrongLoop’s sole discretion, to provide alternatives that reduce any adverse impact on StrongLoop’s intellectual property or other rights; or

1.4.3 allow access or permit use of the Software by any users other than Customer’s employees or authorized third-party contractors who are providing services to Customer and agree in writing to abide by the terms of this Agreement, provided further that Customer shall be liable for any failure by such employees and third-party contractors to comply with the terms of this Agreement and no usage restrictions, if any, shall be exceeded; or

1.4.4 create, develop, license, install, use, or deploy any third party software or services to circumvent or provide access, permissions or rights which violate the license keys embedded within the Software; or

1.4.5 modify or create derivative works based upon the Software or Documentation; or

1.4.6 disclose the results of any benchmark test of the Software to any third party without StrongLoop's prior written approval; or

1.4.7 change any proprietary rights notices which appear in the Software or Documentation; or

1.4.8 use the Software as part of a software as a service or in any other resale capacity.

1.5 Copies. Customer may make up to two copies of the Software for backup and/or archival purposes.

1.6 Open Source Software. The Software may include individual open source software components, each of which has its own copyright and its own applicable license conditions. The open source software is licensed to Customer under the terms of the applicable open source license conditions and/or copyright notices that can be found in the licenses file, the Documentation or other materials accompanying the Software.

2 Support Services. For Customers purchasing a Software Subscription, StrongLoop shall provide Support Services for the Software as described in Exhibit A at the level selected by Customer (e.g., Developer, Silver or Gold). Support Services are provided to Customer solely for Customer’s internal use and Customer may not use the Software or Support Services to supply any services or support to any third party. 

3 Fees and Payment. The provisions of this Section 3 apply to Software Subscriptions only. Customer agrees to pay StrongLoop the applicable fees ("Fees") for the Software Subscription. In addition, Customer shall pay all sales, use, value added, withholding, excise taxes and other tax, duty, custom and similar fees levied upon the delivery or use of the Software Subscriptions described in this 

Agreement. Fees shall be invoiced in full upon the purchase of the applicable Software Subscription. Unless otherwise agreed between the parties in writing, all invoices shall be paid in US dollars and are due upon receipt and shall be paid within thirty (30) days. 

Payments shall be made without right of set-off or chargeback. If Customer does not pay the invoices when due, StrongLoop may charge interest at one percent (1%) per month on the unpaid balance. If any applicable law requires Customer to withhold amounts from any payments to StrongLoop under this Agreement, (a) Customer shall effect such withholding, remit such amounts to the appropriate taxing authorities and promptly furnish StrongLoop with tax receipts evidencing the payments of such amounts and (b) the sum payable by Customer upon which the deduction or withholding is based shall be increased to the extent necessary to ensure that, after such deduction or withholding, StrongLoop receives and retains, free from liability for such deduction or withholding, a net amount equal to the amount StrongLoop would have received and retained absent the required deduction or withholding.

4 Confidentiality. For a period of five (5) years from the date of disclosure of the applicable Confidential Information, Customer shall (i) hold the Confidential Information in trust and confidence and avoid the disclosure or release thereof to any other person or entity by using the same degree of care as it uses to avoid unauthorized use, disclosure, or dissemination of its own Confidential Information of a similar nature, but not less than reasonable care, and (ii) not use the Confidential Information for any purpose whatsoever except as expressly contemplated under this Agreement; provided that, to the extent the Confidential Information constitutes a trade secret under law, Customer agrees to protect such information for so long as it qualifies as a trade secret under applicable law. Customer shall disclose the Confidential Information only to those of its employees and contractors having a need to know such Confidential Information and shall take all reasonable precautions to ensure that such employees and contractors comply 
with the provisions of this Section. The obligations of Customer under this Section shall not apply to information that Customer can demonstrate (i) was in its possession at the time of disclosure and without restriction as to confidentiality, (ii) at the time of disclosure is generally available to the public or after disclosure becomes generally available to the public through no breach of agreement or other wrongful act by Customer, (iii) has been received from a third party without restriction on disclosure and without breach of agreement by Customer, or (iv) is independently developed by Customer without regard to the Confidential Information. In addition, Customer may disclose Confidential Information as required to comply with binding orders of governmental entities that have jurisdiction over it; provided that Customer gives StrongLoop reasonable written notice to allow StrongLoop to seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy, discloses only such Confidential Information as is required by the governmental entity, and uses commercially reasonable efforts to obtain confidential treatment for any Confidential Information disclosed. Notwithstanding the above, Customer agrees that StrongLoop, its employees and agents shall be free to use and employ their general skills, know-how, and expertise, and to use, disclose, and employ any generalized ideas, concepts, know-how, methods, techniques or skills gained or learned during the course of any licenses, Subscriptions and the Support Services for the Software performed under this Agreement.

5 Ownership. 

5.1 Ownership of Software. StrongLoop and its licensors shall retain all intellectual property and proprietary rights in the Software, Documentation, and related works, including but not limited to any derivative work of the foregoing.

5.2 Customer’s Materials. Customer grants to StrongLoop a nonexclusive, non-transferable, royalty-free license to use materials provided by Customer to StrongLoop during the Term of this Agreement solely for the purpose of performing the Support Services for the 

Software for Customer. 

6 Warranties, Disclaimer and Limitation of Liability.

6.1 Development Use and Evaluation Licenses. 

6.1.1 Disclaimer. THE SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION MADE AVAILABLE TO CUSTOMER UNDER AN DEVELOPMENT USE AND EVALUATION LICENSE ARE PROVIDED “AS-IS” AND STRONGLOOP AND ITS SUPPLIERS MAKE NO WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, INTEGRATION, NON-INFRINGEMENT, TITLE, PERFORMANCE, AND ACCURACY AND ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES ARISING FROM STATUTE, COURSE OF DEALING, COURSE OF PERFORMANCE, OR USAGE OF TRADE. WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING DISCLAIMER, THE SOFTWARE AND DOCUMENTATION ARE NOT DESIGNED, MANUFACTURED OR INTENDED FOR USE IN THE PLANNING, CONSTRUCTION, MAINTENANCE, CONTROL, OR DIRECT OPERATION OF NUCLEAR FACILITIES, AIRCRAFT NAVIGATION, CONTROL OR COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, WEAPONS SYSTEMS, OR DIRECT LIFE SUPPORT SYSTEMS.

6.1.2 Limitation of Liability. WITH REGARD TO DEVELOPMENT USE AND EVALUATION LICENSES, IN NO EVENT WILL STRONGLOOP OR ITS SUPPLIERS BE LIABLE UNDER THIS AGREEMENT FOR ANY INDIRECT, RELIANCE, PUNITIVE, CONSEQUENTIAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR INCIDENTAL DAMAGES OF ANY KIND AND HOWEVER CAUSED AND IN NO EVENT WILL STRONGLOOP’S CUMULATIVE LIABILITY FOR ANY CLAIM ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT 
EXCEED THE AMOUNT OF ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS (US$100). IN NO EVENT WILL STRONGLOOP’S SUPPLIERS HAVE ANY LIABILITY FOR ANY CLAIM ARISING IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT. THE PROVISIONS OF THIS SECTION 6.1.2
ALLOCATE RISKS UNDER THIS AGREEMENT BETWEEN CUSTOMER, STRONGLOOP AND STRONGLOOP'S SUPPLIERS. THE FOREGOING LIMITATIONS, EXCLUSIONS AND DISCLAIMERS APPLY TO THE MAXIMUM EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, EVEN IF ANY REMEDY FAILS IN ITS ESSENTIAL PURPOSE.

7 Term and Termination.

7.1 This Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and continue until terminated as set forth in this Agreement (“Term”).

For Development Use and Evaluation Licenses, either party may terminate this Agreement immediately upon written notice to the other party, and the license granted in Section 1.2 automatically terminates upon the termination of this Agreement. For Software Subscriptions, either party may terminate this Agreement in the event that the other party breaches this Agreement and does not cure such breach within thirty (30) days of written notice. Each Software Subscription shall begin on the date Customer purchases the Software Subscription and shall continue during the time Customer has paid the initial Subscription Fees (“Initial Term”), unless terminated earlier in accordance with this Section 7.1. Software Subscriptions shall automatically renew for additional terms of one (1) year each (each a “Renewal Term”) unless either party gives the other party written notice of its intent not to renew at least thirty (30) days prior to the end of the then-current term. The license granted in Section 1.3 of this Agreement automatically terminates upon the termination of the underlying Software Subscription. Expiration or termination of this Agreement for any reason shall not relieve the parties of any obligation accruing prior to expiration or termination. 

7.2 Sections 4, 5, 6.1.1, 6.1.2, 6.2.2, 6.2.3, 7, 8 and 9 shall survive the expiration or termination of this Agreement.

7.3 During the Term and for one (1) year following termination or expiration (but no more than once in a calendar year), StrongLoop and its auditors may inspect Customer’s records relating to its reproduction and use of the Software for the purposes of verifying Customer’s compliance with this Agreement. Customer shall cooperate fully with StrongLoop and its auditors in conducting audits and provide reasonable assistance. If an underpayment is discovered, Customer shall promptly pay such amount and Customer shall reimburse StrongLoop for the cost of the audit.

8 General. 

8.1 Entire Agreement. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties concerning the subject matter hereof. Purchase orders shall be for the sole purpose of defining quantities, prices and describing the Software and Support Services to be provided under this Agreement and to this extent only are incorporated as a part of this Agreement and all other terms in purchase orders are rejected. This Agreement supersedes all prior or contemporaneous discussions, proposals and agreements between the parties relating to the subject matter hereof. No amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by both parties. 

8.2 Severability. If any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid or unenforceable, the remaining portions shall remain in full force and effect and such provision shall be enforced to the maximum extent possible so as to effect the intent of the parties and shall be reformed to the extent necessary to make such provision valid and enforceable. 

8.3 Waiver. No waiver of rights by either party may be implied from any actions or failures to enforce rights under this Agreement. 

8.4 Force Majeure. Neither party shall be liable to the other for any delay or failure to perform due to causes beyond its reasonable control (excluding payment of monies due). 8.5 No Third Party Beneficiaries. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the terms of this Agreement are intended to be and are solely for the benefit of StrongLoop and Customer and do not create any right in favor of any third party. 

8.6 Governing Law and Jurisdiction. This Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California without reference to the principles of conflicts of law. The provisions of the Uniform Computerized Information Transaction Act and United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods shall not apply to this Agreement. The parties shall attempt to resolve any dispute related to this Agreement informally, initially through their respective management, and then by non-binding mediation in San Francisco County, California. Any litigation related to this Agreement shall be brought in the state or federal courts located in San Francisco County, California, and only in those courts and each party irrevocably waives any objections to such venue. 

8.7 Notices. All notices must be in writing and shall be effective three (3) days after the date sent to the other party’s headquarters, Attention Chief Financial Officer.

9 Definitions.

“Confidential Information” means any and all information or proprietary materials (in every form and media) not generally known in the relevant trade or industry and which has been or is hereafter disclosed or made available by StrongLoop to Customer in connection with the transactions contemplated under this Agreement, including (i) all trade secrets, (ii) existing or contemplated Software, services, designs, technology, processes, technical data, engineering, techniques, methodologies and concepts and any related information, and (iii) information relating to business plans, sales or marketing methods and customer lists or requirements. 

“Development Use” means use of the Software for the development of customer applications only. 

“Documentation” means the documentation made available electronically as part of the Software, which may be modified during the Term.

“Error” means a failure in the Software to materially conform in all material respects to the specifications as described in the applicable Documentation.

“Development Use and Evaluation License” means a term license for the Software.

“Maintenance Fix” means generally available code corrections and patches for the Software designated by StrongLoop by means of a change in the digit to the right of the Minor Release number (e.g. x.x.1, x.x.2).

“Major Release” means a generally available release of the Software designated by StrongLoop by means of a change in the digit to the left of the first decimal point (e.g. 2.x, 3.x, 4.x).

“Minor Release” means a generally available release of the Software designated by StrongLoop by means of a change in the digit to the right of the first decimal point (e.g. x.4, x.5, x.6).

"Server" means a system on which all or a portion of the Software is installed or used. A System includes a server, work station, laptop, virtual machine, blade, node, partition, appliance or engine, as applicable.

"Software" means the StrongLoop Node software licensed by Customer from StrongLoop under this Agreement.

“Software Subscription” means a term license purchased by Customer for the Software and Support Services for the Software.

"Support Services" mean the support provided to Customer as part of the Software Subscription.

“Upgrade” means a Release, Minor Release, or Maintenance Fix of the Software.



